{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 # Statement of Facts #\
	\
Ms. Park was a senior lab technician at Drummond Bioprocesses, and a valued member of their research staff. R. at 8. Drummond researches medicines for illnesses that often attack patients who are already sick with cystic fibrosis. *Id.* at 7. It was at a crucial moment in an important clinical trial of one of these treatments that Ms. Park stopped coming to work. R. at 14; *see also* R. at 10 (on the importance of the stage of the trial). In so doing, she set the trial back a whole year. R. at 10. This setback jeopardized the funding of the trial. *Id.* It also delayed the availability of an important treatment that would have lengthened lives and improved the quality of life for some very sick people. *Id.*\
\
When her brother died, Ms. Park took a week of bereavement leave. *Id.* at 14. While she was away, the team struggled to follow the rigorous experimental protocol. *Id.* at 10. During her leave, Ms. Park also struggled, though about whether she would be able to perform her duties on her return. *Id.* When she returned, Ms. Park had trouble concentrating on even the minor tasks she was performing during her first three days back. *Id.* When she resumed her normal, more rigorous, duties at the start of the following week, she had an even harder time, suffering flashbacks and insomnia. *Id.* As one might expect, given the focus this work demanded and her trouble the prior week, Ms. Park was unable to giver her work the attention it demanded. *Id.*\
\
Despite Ms. Park's, apprehension about returning to work, her struggle to focus even while on light duty during her first few days back, and her admitted failure to adequately conduct herself during the first day of more rigorous work, she did not communicate any of this difficulty to anyone until after the close of business on the following day, when she emailed her supervisor, Dr. Emerson. *Id.* In this email, she told him some of what she was going through and that she was not coming to work for a few weeks. *Id.* at 18. Dr. Emerson replied the following morning that he understood that she was going through a difficult time, asked if she had a therapist to talk to, and asked her to "[k]eep [him] posted." *Id.* Over 36 hours later, Ms. Park finally replied to Dr. Emerson to tell him that she had a doctor's appointment coming up in five days. *Id.* She did not contact anyone from Drummond during those five days, nor did she follow up after her appointment. *Id.* at 15. When three days had gone by after the appointment, Drummond had to let Ms. Park go in order to salvage the project and its funding. *Id.* at 10.}