{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 I. Statement of the Case\
\

\b0 Robert Benchley is a student at the Coastal School (\'93Coastal\'94) with a history of violent behavior. Problem, p. 7. Defendant Dr. Catherine Becker is a psychologist whom Robert\'92s parents hired to treat him while at Coastal. 
\i Id. 
\i0 Coastal\'92s staff psychotherapist had been treating Robert until he warned the school\'92s principal about threats Robert made against other students during therapy. File, p. 10. Robert reacted poorly to what he saw as a breach of trust and only agreed to stay at Coastal if Defendant would be his therapist. 
\i Id.
\i0 \
Coastal is a special boarding school for children with behavioral problems. Problem, p. 7
\i .
\i0  Since enrollment is voluntary and there are no guards on campus, it is not a detention center of any kind. 
\i Id.
\i0  However, students are not allowed to leave campus without permission and may be punished for doing so. 
\i Id.\

\i0 Plaintiff Theodore \'93Chip\'94 Andrews was one of Robert\'92s teammates on the soccer team back home in Asheville and the object of much of the anger Robert expressed in his sessions with Defendant. File, p. 10
\i . 
\i0 While Defendant initially made some progress with Robert in his anger management (
\i Id.
\i0  at 10-11), Robert once again became fixated on Plaintiff, threatening to \'93get rid of him,\'94 and that Plaintiff was \'93going to get it.\'94 
\i Id.
\i0  at 11-12. While Defendant was able to help Robert overcome his anger towards some of his peers, his anger toward Plaintiff did not abate. 
\i Id. 
\i0 at 12.\
Robert\'92s violent fixation on Plaintiff came to a head when he learned that the soccer team they had played on together was going to play in the regional championship match. 
\i Id.
\i0  at 13. In his last session with Defendant before the match, Robert said Plaintiff \'93won\'92t play tomorrow,\'94 and that he \'93[c]an\'92t play if he can\'92t walk.\'94 
\i Id.
\i0  After issuing those threats, Robert \'93stormed out\'94 of his session with Defendant. 
\i Id.
\i0  Despite the specificity of the threats Robert made, Defendant did not believe that he would act on them because of: 1) the difficulty he would have in getting to Plaintiff; 2) the progress she believed they were making in therapy; and 3) her judgment that he would not have told her about his plans if he intended to act on them. 
\i Id. 
\i0 Based on these factors, Defendant elected not to inform Plaintiff, Plaintiff\'92s school, law enforcement, or anyone at Coastal of Robert\'92s threats. Problem, p. 8.\
However, contrary to Defendant\'92s assessment, the night before the match, Robert snuck off campus and boarded a bus toward home. 
\i Id.
\i0  When Coastal realized the next day that Robert had gone, they asked Defendant if she knew where he was, and she said that she did not. 
\i Id.
\i0  While Coastal searched locally for Robert, he was actually at his old school. 
\i Id. 
\i0 Shortly before the championship game was to begin, Robert found and attacked Plaintiff with a knife, seriously wounding Plaintiff\'92s leg.}