{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Statement of Facts
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Dracon Publishing employed Plaintiff for more than four years, beginning in 2008. During that time, Plaintiff developed a worsening pattern of absenteeism and failure to comply with the company\'92s policy regarding sick days. Miceli Aff. \'b6\'b6 7-9. In 2010, Plaintiff repeatedly failed to meet Dracon\'92s absence reporting requirements. Miceli Aff. \'b6 9, Dec. 7, 2012. In 2011, not only did Plaintiff continue to fail to meet his reporting obligations (Micelli Aff. \'b6 9), but his twenty-two absences that year exceeded his allotment of sick days. Micelli Aff. \'b6 8.\
Plaintiff\'92s behavior eventually forced Dracon\'92s Human Resources department to put him on the company\'92s Employee Warning List on October 28, 2011. Micelli Aff. \'b6 10. As a result of this, on any day Plaintiff was absent from work, he was required to notify Human Resources of his absence by 9AM, and was not allowed to leave his house for non-medical purposes. Micelli Aff. \'b6 10. On October 31, 2011, Dracon\'92s Human Resources manager notified Plaintiff in writing of these obligations, and that failing to meet them would result in Plaintiff\'92s termination. Micelli Aff. \'b6 11. \
Less than six months after this notification, on March 21, 2012, Plaintiff was absent, and failed to notify Human Resources. Micelli Aff. \'b6 12. Even though Dracon could have terminated Plaintiff after that, Plaintiff\'92s supervisor, Ms. Daughtry, was able to intercede on his behalf. Email from Emily Daughtry to Torsten Paulson (Mar. 21, 2012) (\'93Daughtry Email\'94). Dracon had a large network migration coming up, and since Plaintiff was an important part of that project, Ms. Daughtry convinced Human Resources to let her give him a final warning. Daughtry Email. Despite this, the very next day after being warned about his precarious situation, Plaintiff was again absent from work and again failed to meet his obligations under Dracon\'92s sick leave policy by: 1) neglecting to notify Human Resources of his absence; and 2) leaving his house for reasons unrelated to his illness. Micelli Aff. \'b6 13. As a result, Dracon had no choice but to terminate Plaintiff\'92s employment. Micelli Aff. \'b6 14.\
After firmly establishing the pattern of recalcitrant absenteeism that led to his termination, Plaintiff filed a request for leave under the Family Medical Leave Act (\'93FMLA\'94). Riordan Aff. \'b6 5. Since Plaintiff\'92s notice was adequate, and he was otherwise eligible, Dracon\'92s benefits administrator granted the leave. Riordan Aff. \'b6 6. At no point did anyone in the Benefits Department notify Human Resources of the request (Riordan Aff. \'b6 7) and Human Resources did not learn of it by any other means (Micelli Aff. \'b6 15). The undisputed facts show that the only person who knew of both the leave request and the problem absences was Ms. Daughtry, the person who: 1) most needed Plaintiff\'92s help at work; 2) had no part in his termination; and 3) had just a day before intervened to keep him from being fired. Daughtry Email.}