{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 II. There is no Issue of Material Fact Concerning Dracon's Legitimate Reason for Terminating Plaintiff\'92s Employment\
\
To prevail in a FMLA interference suit, the employee must prove the elements of the alleged interference. In the present case, the only element in dispute is the final one, namely that \'93the employer denied the employee FMLA benefits to which []he was entitled.\'94 
\i Edgar v. JAC Products, Inc.
\i0 , 443 F.3d 501, 507 (6th Cir. 2006). The Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, when considering whether an employer may terminate an employee who has made a claim for FMLA leave, found that \'93interference with an employee's FMLA rights does not constitute a violation if the employer has a legitimate reason unrelated to the exercise of FMLA rights for engaging in the challenged conduct.\'94 
\i Edgar 
\i0 at 508; 
\i see also Arban v. W. Pub. Corp.
\i0 , 345 F.3d 390, 401 (6th Cir. 2003). Thus, if the defendant in an FMLA interference suit can prove a legitimate reason for terminating the employee, that defendant did not violate the employee\'92s rights under that Act.\
In 
\i Ritenour v. Tennessee Dept. of Human Services, 
\i0 the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit found that failure to comply with sick leave call-in policy is a legitimate reason for termination, especially when preceded by a history of personnel issues. 
\i Ritenour v. Tennessee Dept. of Human Services
\i0 . 10-6366, 2012 WL 3806023 at *9 (6th Cir. Aug. 29, 2012). 
\i See also Allen v. Butler County Com'rs,
\i0  331 F. App'x 389, 395 (6th Cir. 2009). Indeed, not only did the 
\i Ritenour
\i0  Court find that such behavior was legitimate grounds for termination, but also that it served as an adequate factual basis to support the employer\'92s summary judgment motion against an FMLA interference claim. 
\i Ritenour
\i0  at *10. \
In the present case, Plaintiff failed to comply with his employer\'92s sick leave call-in requirements, despite Dracon\'92s Human Resources department repeatedly notifying him of those requirements and of the consequences for noncompliance. Plaintiff also exhibited a years-long pattern of personnel issues. These are precisely the same kinds of factual circumstances that the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals found to be legitimate reasons for terminating an employee in 
\i Ritenour 
\i0 and 
\i Adams
\i0 . Further, Plaintiff\'92s behavior is strikingly similar to that which the 
\i Ritenour 
\i0 Court found sufficient to support the employer\'92s summary judgment motion.\
As the undisputed facts show, Plaintiff\'92s failure to notify Dracon\'92s human resources manager of his absences was a rapidly worsening problem that left her no choice but to let him go, despite his value to the company. Plaintiff\'92s history of absenteeism and repeated failure to meet his obligations under Dracon\'92s sick leave policy are precisely the kind of behavior that the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals has found constitutes lawful grounds for termination.}