{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 III. Plaintiff has not met his Burden in Showing that Dracon\'92s Reasons for Terminating him were Pretextual.\
\
When an employer has proven it had a legitimate reason for terminating an employee claiming interference with FMLA rights, the burden is on the employee to show that the reason \'93had no basis in fact, did not motivate the termination, or was insufficient to warrant the termination.\'94 
\i Donald v. Sybra, Inc.
\i0 , 667 F.3d 757, 762 (6th Cir. 2012). Thus, the plaintiff cannot meet the burden of proof unless he can prove that the reason was pretextual by showing that it meets one of those three criteria.\
In 
\i Ritenour
\i0 , the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals found that, since the plaintiff failed to provide evidence establishing any of the criteria for pretext, there was no issue of material fact regarding whether the proffered reasons were the actual cause of the plaintiff\'92s termination. 
\i Ritenour
\i0  at *9. The plaintiff in 
\i Ritenour
\i0  argued that the temporal proximity of her FMLA claim and her termination was evidence of pretext. 
\i Id.
\i0  However, the Court did not find such evidence convincing and held that temporal proximity between the termination and FMLA claim is not sufficient to show pretext. 
\i Id.\

\i0 The plaintiff in 
\i Ritenour 
\i0 argued further that her employer inconsistently applied the call-in policy, so violation of that policy was thus insufficient to warrant her termination. 
\i Ritenour
\i0  at *10. The Court found this argument similarly unconvincing, and stated that her noncompliance with her employer\'92s sick leave call-in policy after repeated warnings was sufficient to warrant her termination. 
\i Id. 
\i0 at *9.\
In the present case, Plaintiff cannot claim that the reasons Dracon cited for his termination, namely his absenteeism and failure to comply with sick leave call-in policy, had no basis in fact. Both behaviors are thoroughly documented and Plaintiff does not dispute any of the evidence on record.\
Further, Plaintiff has no evidence to show that his conduct did not warrant termination. Plaintiff can hardly claim that Dracon inconsistently applied its call-in policy. While Dracon\'92s Human Resources manager did not terminate Plaintiff\'92s employment after his first or even second violation of this policy, he was repeatedly warned with increasing severity of the inevitable consequence of his continued noncompliance. The leniency Dracon showed in the first instance, and the extraordinary intervention on Plaintiff\'92s behalf by his supervisor in the second instance, in no way show that his conduct was insufficient to warrant termination. Whatever ambiguity may have been present in 
\i Ritenour
\i0  was certainly not present in this case, and the 
\i Ritenour
\i0  court nonetheless found that violating call-in policy was sufficient grounds for termination.\
Finally, the temporal proximity of Plaintiff\'92s termination to his FMLA claim does not establish pretext. The only evidence Plaintiff could potentially invoke to show that his FMLA claim motivated his termination would be the temporal proximity of those events. However, the 
\i Ritenour 
\i0 court found that such evidence is insufficient to show that the claim motivated the termination.\
Plaintiff has not met his burden in showing pretext. He has not shown that the reasons Dracon gave for teminating his employment were not based in fact. He has not show that that those reasons did not motivate his termination. Finally, he did not show that those reasons were not sufficient to warrant the termination. Since Plaintiff has thus failed to meet his burden, the Court should conclude that his termination was unrelated to his FMLA claim.}