- [Issue](#issue)
- [Brief Answer](#brief-answer)
- [Analysis](#analysis)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Issue
Under North Carolina law, does conversion occur when a buyer purchases goods on consignment that the seller mistakenly sold against the original owner's wishes?

## Brief Answer
No. Even though Ms. Wong did not intend to consign her prototype, she did entrust it to Segal. Therefore, when Bradford purchased it, he acquired legal title.

## Analysis
To evaluate the viability of Wong's conversion claim, we need to examine how North Carolina's Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) governs transactions like the ones involving Ms. Wong, Mr. Segal, and Mr. Bradford. State and federal courts have interpreted the UCC statutes in a number of cases that bear on the present circumstances, so we must examine those as well. However, the first hurdle Ms. Wong's claim will need to overcome is the motion for summary judgment we anticipate Bradford will file. In order to assess the likelihood that the claim will survive summary judgment, we must have a thorough understanding of that process.

Bradford is entitled to summary judgment if the evidence demonstrates “that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that [he] is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” N.C. Gen. Stat. § 1A-1, Rule 56(c) (2011). According to the Court, "an issue is genuine if it is supported by substantial evidence." *DeWitt v. Eveready Battery Co.*, 355 N.C. 672, 681, 565 S.E.2d 140, 146 (2002), *quoted in* *Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Judy Bass Pennington and Rick Pennington*, 356 N.C. 571, 573 S.E.2d 118 (2002). A judge would thus need to determine that the facts on record weigh heavily in Ms. Wong's favor. Fortunately for her, "the trial judge must view the presented evidence in a light most favorable to the nonmoving party." *Dalton v. Camp*, 353 N.C. 647, 650, 548 S.E.2d 704, 707 (2001), *quoted in* *Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.*, 356 N.C. 571, 573 S.E.2d 118 (2002). So while there is a high bar for Ms. Wong in that the undisputed facts on record must substantially support her claim, the judge must interpret those facts in her favor. Since there is no real dispute between Ms. Wong and Mr. Bradford as to the facts of this case, the judge is very likely to grant the motion of summary judgment we anticipate that Mr. Bradford will file and decide this case as a matter of law. If the judge does so decide, then this case rests entirely on whether the facts as stipulated in the record support a conversion claim.

The Court defines conversion as “‘an unauthorized assumption and exercise of the right of ownership over goods or personal chattels belonging to another, to the alteration of their condition or the exclusion of an owner's rights.’” *Peed v. Burleson's, Inc.*, 244 N.C. 437, 439, 94 S.E.2d 351, 353 (1956) (citation omitted), *quoted in* *Variety Wholesalers, Inc. v. Salem Logistics Traffic Services, LLC*, 723 S.E.2d 744, 747 (N.C. 2012). Under this definition, conversion requires that Mr. Bradford exercised the right of ownership without authorization and that he either altered the condition of the prototype or excluded Ms. Wong's rights to it. It is clear that Bradford both altered the condition of the prototype and excluded Wong's use of it, so those elements are satisfied. The issue we need to resolve is whether Bradford had the right to do so, which is to say, whether he owned the prototype at that point. The answer to the ownership question depends on how the courts have interpreted North Carolina's UCC.

The relevant UCC statute covering transfer of title states that "[a]ny entrusting of possession of goods to a merchant who deals in goods of that kind gives him power to transfer all rights of the entruster to a buyer in ordinary course of business." N.C. Gen. Stat. § 25-2-403(2) (2012). In clarifying this statute, the North Carolina Supreme Court identified "[t]hree essential elements [that] must be present to make this statute operative: (1) an entrustment of goods to (2) a merchant dealing in goods of that kind, followed by a sale by that merchant to (3) a buyer in the ordinary course of business." *American Clipper Corp. v. Howerton*, 311 N.C. 151, 165, 316 S.E.2d 186, 194 (1984). By this analysis, Bradford had title to the prototype if all of the following conditions were met:

1. Ms. Wong's delivery of the prototype to Mr. Segal was an "entrustment";
2. Mr. Segal was "a merchant dealing in goods of that kind"; and
3. Mr. Bradford was a "buyer in the ordinary course of business."

*American Clipper Corp. v. Howerton*, 311 N.C. 151, 165, 316 S.E.2d 186, 194 (1984). See also *Toyomenka, Inc. v. Mount Hope Finishing Co.*, 432 F.2d 722, 727 (4th Cir. 1970). We will examine each of these conditions in turn, beginning with whether Mr. Wong entrusted the prototype to Mr. Segal.

Under the UCC definition of "entrusting," Ms. Wong entrusted the prototype to Mr. Segal when she delivered it to him: "'Entrusting' includes any delivery and any acquiescence in retention of possession regardless of any condition expressed between the parties to the delivery or acquiescence." N.C. Gen. Stat. § 25-2-403(3) (2012). The statute expressly denies the need for any explicit consent or agreement between Ms. Wong and Mr. Segal in order for her delivery to qualify as an entrustment. The statute is so forgiving in this regard that Mr. Segal could have gone so far as to steal the prototype without impairing his ability to transfer title: "[i]ndeed, the UCC provides that entrustment may be completed, and title may pass, despite even the larceny of an entrustee. G.S. § 25-2-403(3)." *North Carolina National Bank v. Robinson*, 78 N.C. App. 1, 11, 336 S.E.2d 666, 672 (1985). With that reading of the statute in place, it is evident that Ms. Wong entrusted the prototype to Mr. Segal even though she did not intend to do so. The next condition we need to establish in order to determine whether Mr. Bradford acquired good title to the prototype is whether he purchased it from "a merchant dealing in goods of that kind."

Mr. Segal was a dealer in the same kind of goods as the prototype. His store, "Ghost in the Machine," "sells electronics on consignment as well as electronics that he has refurbished himself." Wong Statement Sec. 9. Along with the prototype, Ms. Wong delivered other electronics that she did intend to consign (old printers, two wireless routers, and a TiVo). From Mr. Segal's perspective, even if the prototype was unlike most of the goods he normally sells, it was probably not so dissimilar as to represent an entirely different category of good. Consider also that Mr. Bradford, as an electronics hobbyist, routinely patronized Mr. Segal's store specifically for the purpose of finding parts to use in making robots. That he once found such a robot already made must have struck him as a huge stroke of luck, but not one outside the bounds of reasonable expectation. Contrast that situation to one where he finds a fully-assembled robot at shoe store. That would clearly raise an alarm for all parties involved. This situation would not, because electronics are the kinds of goods in which Mr. Segal deals. Since we have now determined that Ms. Wong did entrust the prototype to Mr. Segal, a dealer in goods of that kind, we must now examine whether Mr. Bradford was a buyer in the ordinary course of business in order to evaluate whether he rightfully acquired title to the prototype.

By the statutory definition, Mr. Bradford was a buyer in the ordinary course of business. The UCC defines such a person as one who "buys goods in good faith, without knowledge that the sale violates the rights of another person in the goods, and in the ordinary course from a person . . . in the business of selling goods of that kind." N.C. Gen. Stat. § 25-1-201(9) (2012). If  (1) Mr. Bradford bought the prototype in good faith, (2) he did not know that Ms. Wong would have asserted a right to it, and (3) Mr. Segal sold goods of the same kind as the prototype, then Mr. Bradford was a buyer in the ordinary course of business. We have already determined that Mr. Segal did deal in goods of the same kind as the prototype, so we need to establish whether Mr. Bradford met the other criteria of a buyer in the ordinary course of business. 

In order to be a buyer in the ordinary course of business, we would have to have bought the prototype in good faith, as well as be ignorant of Ms. Wong's right to it. Before putting the prototype up for sale, Mr. Segal has removed all indications that it belonged to Ms. Wong. There is thus no reason not to take Mr. Bradford at his word that he "had no idea" that anyone else had any interest in the prototype. E-mail from Eugene Bradford to Penelope Wong (Aug. 21, 2012) (on file with author). Given these facts, it would only be fair to say the Mr. Bradford was a good faith buyer and the he did not know that Ms. Wong or anyone else would have asserted a right to the goods he purchased. He therefore meets the UCC criteria of a buyer in the ordinary course of business, with all of the rights attendant with that designation.

Given the above analysis, Mr. Bradford's purchase of the prototype did meet the criteria established for transfer of title under the *American Clipper* interpretation of N.C.G.S. § 25-2-403(2). However, in order to adequately evaluate the strength of Ms. Wong's claim, we must consider other interpretations of the statutes and cases referenced above.

In *American Clipper*, the Court said that the UCC allowed a manufacturer to keep a secured interest in goods it consigned by "post[ing] signs on the vehicle or elsewhere identifying itself as the owner." *American Clipper*, 311 N.C. 151, 165, 316 S.E.2d 186, 194 (1984). Ms. Wong very likely met that requirement since her prototype had a sticker on it that said: "PROPERTY OF PENELOPE WONG.  PROPRIETARY!  NOT FOR RESALE." Wong Statement Sec. 12. One could then argue that, since she clearly signaled her intention to retain title to the prototype, Segal couldn't have then transferred it to Bradford.

However, the part of the UCC the court was interpreting in that part of *American Clipper*, N.C.G.S. § 25-2-326(1)(a) (and hence this interpretation), would only apply if Segal's sale to Bradford was a "sale on approval." N.C. Gen. Stat. § 25-2-326(1)(a).
Given "[t]he fine print" (Receipt for Purchase from Sheldon’s Ghost in the Machine Electronics Shop) on the receipt which said, "All Sales are Final. No Warranties and No Returns" (*Id.*), this sale was not a sale on approval. 

Another case that might support a different analysis of this situation is *Toyomenka v. Mount Hope Finishing Co.* 

"No right, title, or interest may be acquired as the result of an unauthorized or wrongful sale, gift, exchange, pledge, mortgage, or other transfer of property by a bailee in possession, even though to an innocent purchaser. The bailor is not divested of his title by such an unauthorized act and may recover the property or its value from the vendee or transferee in any appropriate form of action."

*Toyomenka, Inc. v. Mount Hope Finishing Co.*, 432 F.2d 722, 727 (4th Cir. 1970) (Internal citation omitted). If this analysis applies here, since Wong did not herself mislead Bradford, she is not responsible for Segal's mistake, and she thus retained title to the prototype. However, the facts of *Toyomenka* do not adequately square with the facts of the case at hand. In *Toyomenka*, the reason there was no entrusting was because the delivery was to the wrong person. Had Toyomenka's goods been delivered to the right person in the first place, entrustment would have occurred, and title transfer could have proceeded to Mount Hope. In the present circumstances, Ms. Wong delivered the goods herself to the one and only consignee, so the *Toyomenka* court's analysis does not apply here.

## Conclusion
Having evaluated Ms. Wong's conversion claim and considered other possible analyses,  it seems likely that a court would determine that Mr. Bradford did not convert the prototype. Ms. Wong entrusted the prototype to Mr. Segal, who dealt in goods of that kind, and who sold it to Mr. Bradford, a buyer in the ordinary course of business. Title to the prototype thus rightly transferred to Mr. Bradford, and so he could not then have been a converter.