{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fnil Courier;}{\f1\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2\froman Times;}}{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\margl1260\margr1260\ftnbj\ftnrestart \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\tab \sect \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\tab \sect \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\tab \sect \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\tab \sect \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \qj\sl0 
\tab \sect \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 

\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
{\plain 15.2502A (Crim)\tab FIRST\_DEGREE MURDER\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 1.\tab The defendant has been charged with the offense of 
first\_degree murder. First\_degree murder is a murder in which the 
perpetrator has the specific intent to kill. To find the 
defendant guilty of this offense, you must find that the 
following three elements have been proven beyond a reasonable 
doubt:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i First,}{\plain  that }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain  is dead; \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Second,}{\plain  that the defendant killed [him] [her]; and \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Third,}{\plain  that the defendant did so with the specific 
intent to kill and with malice. \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab A person has the specific intent to kill if he or she 
has a fully formed intent to kill and is conscious of his or her 
own intention. As my earlier definition of malice indicates, a 
killing by a person who has the specific intent to kill is a 
killing with malice [provided that it is also without 
[circumstances reducing the killing to voluntary manslaughter] 
[or] [any lawful justification or excuse]]. \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [3.\tab Stated differently, a killing is with specific intent 
to kill if it is [willful, deliberate, and premeditated] [by 
means of poison] [by lying in wait].] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [4.\tab The specific intent to kill [including the 
premeditation] needed for first\_degree murder does not require 
planning or previous thought or any particular length of time. It 
can occur quickly. All that is necessary is that there be time 
enough so that the defendant can and does fully form an intent to 
kill and is conscious of that intention.] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 5.\tab When deciding whether the defendant had the specific 
intent to kill, you should consider all the evidence regarding 
[his] [her] words and conduct and the attending circumstances 
that may show [his] [her] state of mind, including }{\plain \i [evidence]}{\plain . 
[If you believe that the defendant intentionally used a deadly 
weapon on a vital part of the victim\'92s body, you may regard that 
as an item of circumstantial evidence from which you may, if you 
choose, infer that the defendant had the specific intent to 
kill.]\par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502B (Crim){\plain \tab SECOND\_DEGREE MURDER\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [First Alternative: Defendant Felon Acting Alone]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab [1.\tab I will start with some terminology and basic 
principles. The more serious types of crimes are called felonies. 
For example, [robbery] }{\plain \i [type of crime]}{\plain  is a felony. Second\_degree 
murder is often called felony\_murder because it is a killing 
connected with a felony. [The felon need not intend to kill 
anyone or anticipate that anyone be killed. The person killed can 
be someone other than a victim of the felony. He or she need not 
die immediately; he or she may die much later and at a different 
place.] }{\plain \i [give other specific details]}{\plain .] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab The defendant has been charged with second\_degree 
murder, that is, felony murder. To find the defendant guilty of 
this offense, you must find that the following three elements 
have been proven beyond a reasonable doubt:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i First,}{\plain  that the defendant [killed] [caused the death 
of] }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain ; \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Second,}{\plain  that the defendant did so while [committing] 
[attempting] [fleeing after committing] [fleeing after 
attempting] a certain [robbery] }{\plain \i [specific crime]}{\plain ; and \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Third,}{\plain  that the defendant was acting with malice. You 
may find that the defendant was acting with malice if you 
are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that [he] [she] 
[committed] [attempted] the [robbery] }{\plain \i [specific crime]}{\plain . 
Because [robbery] }{\plain \i [specific crime]}{\plain  is a crime inherently 
dangerous to human life, there does not have to be any other 
proof of malice. \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [3.\tab I shall now define [robbery] [an attempt to commit 
robbery] }{\plain \i [specific crime]}{\plain : }{\plain \i [definition]}{\plain .\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [4.\tab A defendant kills \'93while fleeing\'94 if he or she does the 
act that kills during his or her flight from the scene and there 
is no break in the chain of events between the felony and the 
killing.] \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Second Alternative: Killing by Defendant\'92s Co\_felon]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab [1.\tab I will start with some terminology and basic 
principles. The more serious types of crimes are called felonies. 
For example, [robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain  is a felony. Second\_degree 
murder is often called felony\_murder because it is a killing 
connected with a felony. When two people are partners in a 
successful or unsuccessful attempt to commit a felony and one of 
them kills a third person, both partners may be guilty of 
felony\_murder. [Neither partner has to intend to kill nor 
anticipate that anyone be killed. The person killed can be 
someone other than a victim of the felony. He or she need not die 
immediately; he or she may die much later and at a different 
place.] }{\plain \i [other specifics]}{\plain .] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab The defendant has been charged with second\_degree 
murder, that is, felony murder. To find the defendant guilty of 
this offense, you must find that the following four elements have 
been proven beyond a reasonable doubt: \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i First,}{\plain  that }{\plain \i [name of defendant]}{\plain  [killed] [caused the 
death of] }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain ; \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Second,}{\plain  that }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain  did so while [he] [she] 
and the defendant were partners in [committing] [attempting] 
a certain [robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain ; \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Third,}{\plain  that }{\plain \i [name of defendant]}{\plain  did the act that 
[killed] [caused the death of] }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain  in 
furtherance of the [robbery] [robbery attempt] }{\plain \i [other 
crime]}{\plain ; and \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Fourth,}{\plain  that the defendant was acting with malice. You 
may find that the defendant was acting with malice if you 
are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that [he] [she] and}{\plain \i  
[name of partner]}{\plain  were partners in [committing] [attempting] 
the [robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain . Because [robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime] 
}{\plain is a crime inherently dangerous to human life, there does 
not have to be any other proof of malice. \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [3.\tab I shall now define [robbery] [an attempt to commit 
robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain : }{\plain \i [definition]}{\plain .] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 4.\tab Going back to the requirement that the defendant and 
}{\plain \i [name of partner] }{\plain were partners in [committing] [attempting] the 
[robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain :\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [I instruct you that they were partners if they were both 
principals or one of them was a principal and the other was an 
accomplice. A person is a \'93principal\'94 if he or she actually 
commits the crime or makes the attempt himself or herself. A 
person is an \'93accomplice\'94 if, with the intent of encouraging or 
helping the commission of the crime he or she asks the principal 
to commit it or helps or agrees or attempts to help the principal 
in committing it.] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [I instruct you that they were partners if they conspired to 
commit the [robbery] }{\plain \i [other crime]}{\plain . Two [or more] people 
\'93conspire\'94 to commit a crime if, with the intent of encouraging 
or helping the commission of the crime, they agree that one or 
[both] [some] [all] of them will commit the crime [or an attempt 
or request to commit it] or that one of them will help the others 
in planning or committing it [or attempting to commit it or 
asking that it be committed.] Their agreement may be express and 
verbal\'96they may actually talk about it. Or their agreement may be 
an unspoken agreement that can be inferred from their words and 
conduct and the surrounding circumstances. Each knows what the 
other is thinking\'96they don\'92t have to talk about it. Finally, to 
complete the conspiracy, one of the conspirators must commit what 
the law calls an overt act. An overt act is an act by any member 
of the conspiracy that would serve to further the goal of the 
conspiracy. Here, the Commonwealth contends that }{\plain \i [overt act]}{\plain  was 
such an act.]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [I instruct you that they were partners if }{\plain \i [explanation]}{\plain .]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [5.\tab I shall now explain the meaning of the \'93in furtherance\'94 
element:] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [A partner\'92s act that kills is not in furtherance of the 
felony if the partner does the act for his or her own personal 
reasons that are independent of the felony.] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [A partner\'92s act that kills is in furtherance of the felony 
if he or she does the act while fleeing from the scene and if 
there is no break in the chain of events between the felony and 
the act. However, even though the partner\'92s act that kills may 
seem to meet these requirements, it is not in furtherance of the 
felony if the partner does the act for his or her own personal 
reasons that are independent of the felony and the effort to 
flee.] \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [}{\plain \i [reasons]}{\plain ] \par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502C ({\plain Crim)\tab THIRD\_DEGREE MURDER\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 1.\tab Third\_degree murder is any killing with malice [that is 
not first\_ or second\_degree murder]. The defendant has been 
charged with third\_degree murder. To find the defendant guilty of 
this offense, you must find that the following three elements 
have been proven beyond a reasonable doubt:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i First,}{\plain  that }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain  is dead;\par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Second,}{\plain  that the defendant killed [him] [her]; and\par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \tab }{\plain \i Third,}{\plain  that the defendant did so with malice.\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [2.\tab The word \'93malice\'94 as I am using it has a special legal 
meaning. It does not mean simply hatred, spite, or ill\_will. \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab Malice is a shorthand way of referring to particular mental 
states that the law regards as being bad enough to make a killing 
murder.] \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [First Alternative]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab 3.\tab For murder of the third degree, a killing is with 
malice if the perpetrator\'92s actions show his or her wanton and 
willful disregard of an unjustified and extremely high risk that 
his or her conduct would result in death or serious bodily injury 
to another. In this form of malice, the Commonwealth need not 
prove that the perpetrator specifically intended to kill another. 
The Commonwealth must prove, however, that the perpetrator took 
action while consciously, that is, knowingly, disregarding the 
most serious risk he or she was creating, and that, by his or her 
disregard of that risk, the perpetrator demonstrated his or her 
extreme indifference to the value of human life.\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Second Alternative]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab 3.\tab For murder of the third degree, a killing is with 
malice if the perpetrator acts with [a wickedness of disposition, 
hardness of heart, cruelty, recklessness of consequences, and a 
mind regardless of social duty indicating an unjustified 
disregard for the probability of death or great bodily harm and 
an extreme indifference to the value of human life] [a conscious 
disregard of an unjustified and extremely high risk that his or 
her actions might cause death or serious bodily harm].\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [On the other hand, a killing is without malice if the 
perpetrator acts [with a lawful justification or excuse] [or] 
[under circumstances that reduce the killing to voluntary 
manslaughter].]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 4.\tab When deciding whether the defendant acted with malice, 
you should consider all the evidence regarding [his] [her] words, 
conduct, and the attending circumstances that may show [his] 
[her] state of mind including }{\plain \i [state of mind]}{\plain . [If you believe 
that the defendant intentionally used a deadly weapon on a vital 
part of }{\plain \i [name of victim]}{\plain \'92s body, you may regard that as an item 
of circumstantial evidence from which you may, if you choose, 
infer that the defendant acted with malice.]\par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502E ({\plain Crim)\tab DEATH PENALTY, INSTRUCTION BEFORE HEARING\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 1.\tab You have found the defendant guilty of first\_degree 
murder. We are now going to hold a sentencing hearing. Counsel 
may present additional evidence and make further arguments. Then 
you will decide whether to sentence the defendant to death or 
life imprisonment.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab The sentence you impose will depend on whether you find 
any of the things that the Pennsylvania Sentencing Code calls 
aggravating or mitigating circumstances. Aggravating 
circumstances must be proven by the Commonwealth beyond a 
reasonable doubt while mitigating circumstances must be proven by 
the defendant by a preponderance of the evidence, that is, by the 
greater weight of the evidence.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [3.\tab It may help you to have in mind some of the things that 
the Pennsylvania Sentencing Code says are aggravating and 
mitigating circumstances. }{\plain \i [enumerate potentially relevant 
aggravating and mitigating circumstances.]}{\plain  Only the circumstances 
I have identified for you as aggravating circumstances may be 
considered by you to be aggravating circumstances. Mitigating 
circumstances, however, also include any other mitigating matters 
concerning the character, background, and record of the defendant 
or the circumstances of [his] [her] offense.]\par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502F (Crim){\plain \tab DEATH PENALTY, GENERAL INSTRUCTION\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 1.\tab Members of the jury, you must now decide what sentence 
to impose upon the defendant. Your sentence will depend upon what 
you find about aggravating and mitigating circumstances. The 
Sentencing Code defines aggravating and mitigating circumstances, 
and I will explain more about them in a moment. First, however, 
you must understand that your verdict must be a sentence of death 
if, and only if, you unanimously find, that is, all of you find, 
at least one aggravating and no mitigating circumstance or if you 
unanimously find one or more aggravating circumstances that 
outweigh any mitigating circumstance. If you do not all agree on 
one or the other of these findings, then the only verdict that 
you may return is a sentence of life imprisonment.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab The Commonwealth must prove any aggravating 
circumstance beyond a reasonable doubt. \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Reasonable Doubt Explanation\'96First Alternative]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab [This does not mean that the Commonwealth must prove the 
aggravating circumstance beyond all doubt and to a mathematical 
certainty. A reasonable doubt is the kind of doubt that would 
cause a reasonable and sensible person to hesitate before acting 
upon an important matter in his or her own affairs. A reasonable 
doubt must be a real doubt; it may not be one that a juror 
imagines or makes up to avoid carrying out an unpleasant duty.]\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Reasonable Doubt Explanation\'96Second Alternative]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab [To prove the aggravating circumstance beyond a reasonable 
doubt means that the Commonwealth must convince you of its 
existence to a level of certainty that the law requires before a 
sentence of death may be imposed.\par
}{\plain \tab To find that an aggravating circumstance exists beyond a 
reasonable doubt, you must be convinced of it to the same degree 
you would be convinced about a matter of importance in your own 
life in which you would act with confidence and without restraint 
or hesitation.\par
}{\plain \tab Understand that in making decisions of importance in our own 
lives, we can never act with mathematical certainty. Also, we 
must recognize that sometimes, simply out of fear of making those 
important decisions, we may imagine doubts that are based on 
virtually anything. It is important that we make sure that doubts 
that we allow to affect our decisions are only those that are 
based upon facts and reason. \par
}{\plain \tab The same considerations apply here. The simple but important 
question you must decide is whether the evidence convinces you of 
existence of the aggravating circumstance to the degree that if 
this were a matter of importance in your own life, you would act 
on that matter confidently, without hesitation or restraint. The 
answer to that question must arise from your conscientious review 
of the facts and the law, the application of your good common 
sense, and your recognition of the importance of the oath you 
took as a juror to try this case fairly, impartially, and 
honorably.]\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Defendant\'92s Burden to Prove Mitigating Circumstance]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \tab 3.\tab By contrast, the defendant must prove any mitigating 
circumstance. However, the defendant only has to prove it by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that is, by the greater weight of 
the evidence. This is a less demanding standard than proof beyond 
a reasonable doubt. Facts are proven by a preponderance when the 
evidence shows that it is more likely than not that the facts are 
true.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 4.\tab In this case, under the Sentencing Code, only the 
following matters, if proven to your satisfaction beyond a 
reasonable doubt, can be aggravating circumstances:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \i [Here the court should state the aggravating circumstances 
raised in the evidence. For suggestions, see Instruction 
15.2502G.]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 5.\tab In this case, under the Sentencing Code, the following 
matters, if proven to your satisfaction by a preponderance of the 
evidence, can be mitigating circumstances:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li900\sl0 
{\plain \i [Here the court should state the mitigating circumstances 
raised in the evidence. For suggestions, see Instruction 
15.2502G. The court should routinely include the following 
statement of the catch\_all category:]\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab Any other mitigating matter concerning the background, 
character, and record of the defendant or the circumstances of 
[his] [her] offense [including but not limited to }{\plain \i [other 
mitigating matters]}{\plain ].\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 6.\tab In deciding whether aggravating or mitigating 
circumstances exist and whether aggravating outweigh mitigating 
circumstances, you should consider the evidence and arguments 
offered by both the Commonwealth and the defendant. This includes 
the evidence that you heard during the earlier trial to the 
extent that it bears upon the issues now before you. [You should 
also consider the statement that the defendant made when [he] 
[she] personally addressed you.]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [7.\tab You have heard evidence about the victim and about the 
impact of the victim\'92s murder upon [his] [her] family. I\'92m 
talking about the statements made by }{\plain \i [name of family member]}{\plain . 
This evidence is subject to two special rules. First, you cannot 
regard it as an aggravating circumstance. Second, if you find at 
least one aggravating circumstance and at least one mitigating 
circumstance, you may then consider the victim and family impact 
evidence when deciding whether aggravating outweigh mitigating 
circumstances. Each of you may give the victim and family impact 
evidence whatever weight [, favorable or unfavorable to the 
defendant,] that you think it deserves. Your consideration of 
this evidence, however, must be limited to a rational inquiry 
into the culpability of the defendant, not an emotional response 
to the evidence presented.]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 8.\tab You have been given a sentencing verdict slip on which 
to record your verdict and findings. I shall now give you further 
directions on how to go about reaching a verdict, making 
findings, and using the verdict slip.\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [See Instruction 15.2502H for instructional language to be 
incorporated here and for a recommended form of verdict slip.]}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [9.\tab I\'92ll explain something about a sentence of life 
imprisonment. Under Pennsylvania law, a prisoner who has been 
convicted of first\_degree murder and who is serving a sentence of 
life imprisonment is not eligible for parole. The parole board 
has no power to release the prisoner from prison. \par
}{\plain \tab The only way such a prisoner can attain release is by a 
commutation granted by the governor. Pennsylvania has a board of 
pardons, as well as a parole board. If a life prisoner can 
convince the board of pardons that his or her sentence should be 
commuted, that is, made shorter, and the board of pardons 
unanimously recommends this to the governor, the governor has the 
power to shorten the sentence. If the governor follows the pardon 
board\'92s recommendation and commutes the sentence, the prisoner 
may be released early or become eligible for parole in the 
future.\par
}{\plain \tab I\'92ll tell you that the governor and board of pardons rarely 
commute a sentence of life imprisonment. [You can assume that 
whenever they do so, they will act responsibly and will not 
commute the sentence of a life prisoner who they believe is 
dangerous.]]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 10.\tab Now you must decide. Be fair and do not let yourself be 
influenced by passion or prejudice. [It was entirely up to the 
defendant whether to [testify] [or] [present evidence]. You must 
not draw any adverse inference from [the defendant\'92s silence] 
[or] [the fact that the defendant did not present evidence].] The 
sentence you impose must be in accordance with the law as I have 
instructed you and not be based on sympathy, prejudice, emotion, 
or public opinion, and not based solely on victim impact 
testimony.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 11.\tab Remember that your verdict is not merely a 
recommendation; it actually fixes the punishment of death or life 
imprisonment. Your verdict, whether it be death or life 
imprisonment, must be unanimous. It must be the verdict of each 
and every one of you.\par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502G ({\plain Crim)\tab DEATH PENALTY, STATING AGGRAVATING AND 
MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \i [The court should use the statutory language when stating 
aggravating and mitigating circumstances as part of subdivision 3 
of Instruction 15.2502E, or subdivisions 3 and 4 of Instruction 
15.2502F. The court, however, should use only that part of the 
definition of the particular circumstance that is relevant to the 
case, adding any explanation that the jurors might need to 
understand and apply the statutory language. Some possibly useful 
explanations follow:]}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [1.\tab }{\plain \i [To be used with aggravating circumstances from section 
9711(d)(5):]}{\plain  The Commonwealth does not have to prove that the 
defendant actually committed the other felony. It does have to 
prove, however, that there were criminal proceedings pending 
against the defendant for allegedly committing the other felony 
and that the defendant killed the victim to prevent [him] [her] 
from testifying as a prosecution witness in those proceedings.]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [2.\tab }{\plain \i [To be used with aggravating circumstance from section 
9711(d)(8):]}{\plain  For a person to commit first\_degree murder by means 
of torture, the person must intend to do more than kill his or 
her victim.  He or she must intend to inflict unnecessary pain or 
suffering, and he or she must do so in a manner or by means that 
are heinous, atrocious, or cruel, and show exceptional 
depravity.]\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab [3.\tab }{\plain \i [To be used with the aggravating circumstance from 
section 9711(d)(9):]}{\plain  In deciding whether the defendant has a 
\'93significant history,\'94 the factors you should consider include 
the number of previous convictions, the nature of the previous 
crimes and their similarity to, or relationship with, the murder 
in this case.  [The fact that all of the previous convictions 
were based on a single incident or transaction or occurred at a 
single trial does not, by itself, prevent them from being a 
significant history of convictions.] No particular number of 
convictions is automatically \'93significant.\'94]\par
}{\plain }\pard\page 
\pard \fi-3060\li3060\sl0\tx3060 
15.2502H{\plain  (Crim)\tab DEATH PENALTY, PROCESS OF DECISION AND 
VERDICT SLIP\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 1.\tab When you are in the jury room, read the verdict slip 
before you begin to discuss the case. Do not write anything on 
the slip unless and until you have finished deliberating and 
agreed on your sentence. Use the verdict slip for one thing 
only\'96to record your sentencing verdict and findings.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 2.\tab As I told you earlier, you must agree unanimously on 
one of two general findings before you can sentence the defendant 
to death. They are a finding that there is at least one 
aggravating circumstance and no mitigating circumstance or a 
finding that there are one or more aggravating circumstances that 
outweigh any mitigating circumstance or circumstances. [In 
deciding whether aggravating outweigh mitigating circumstances, 
do not simply count their number. Compare the seriousness and 
importance of the aggravating with the mitigating circumstances.] 
If you all agree on either one of the two general findings, then 
you can and must sentence the defendant to death.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 3.\tab When voting on the general findings, you are to regard 
a particular aggravating circumstance as present only if you all 
agree that it is present. On the other hand, each of you is free 
to regard a particular }{\plain \i mitigating}{\plain  circumstance as present despite 
what other jurors may believe. This is different from the general 
findings to reach your ultimate sentence of either life in prison 
or death. The specific findings as to any particular aggravating 
circumstance must be unanimous. All of you must agree that the 
Commonwealth has proven it beyond a reasonable doubt. That is not 
true for any mitigating circumstance.  Any circumstance that any 
juror considers to be mitigating may be considered by that juror 
in determining the proper sentence. This different treatment of 
aggravating and mitigating circumstances is one of the law\'92s 
safeguards against unjust death sentences. It gives a defendant 
the full benefit of any mitigating circumstances. It is closely 
related to the burden of proof requirements. Remember, the 
Commonwealth must prove any aggravating circumstance beyond a 
reasonable doubt while the defendant only has to prove any 
mitigating circumstance by a preponderance of the evidence. Your 
final sentence\'96life imprisonment or death\'96must be unanimous. All 
of you must agree that the sentence should be life imprisonment 
or that the sentence should be death because there is at least 
one aggravating circumstance and no mitigating circumstance or 
because the aggravating circumstance or circumstances outweigh 
the mitigating circumstance or circumstances found by any juror. \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab 4.\tab If you do not agree unanimously on a death sentence and 
on one of the two general findings that would support it, then 
you have two immediate options. You may either continue to 
discuss the case and deliberate the possibility of a death 
sentence, or, if all of you agree to do so, you may stop 
deliberating and sentence the defendant to life imprisonment. If 
you should come to a point where you have deliberated 
conscientiously and thoroughly and still cannot all agree either 
to sentence the defendant to death or to stop and sentence him or 
her to life imprisonment, report that to me. If it seems to me 
that you are hopelessly deadlocked, it will be my duty to 
sentence the defendant to life imprisonment.\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain \i [Here the court should give any further detailed instructions on 
using and completing the verdict slip that it thinks are 
necessary. An example of detailed instructions is given as 
follows:]}{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-2340\li2340\sl0\tx2340 
{\plain \tab \tab a.\tab Look at part II of the verdict slip entitled 
\'93Sentencing Verdict and Findings.\'94 I will now give 
you specific directions about how to complete this 
part of the verdict slip.\par
}\pard \fi-2340\li2340\sl0\tx2340 
{\plain \tab \tab b.\tab Before you can sentence the defendant to death, 
you must all agree on the general finding in 
either B.1. or B.2. If you all agree on one or 
more aggravating circumstances and all agree that 
there are no mitigating circumstances, then check 
B.1. At that point, copy all the aggravating 
circumstances listed in Part I on which you all 
agree. If you all agree on one or more aggravating 
circumstances and, although one or more of you 
find mitigating circumstances, you all agree that 
the aggravating outweigh the mitigating 
circumstances, then check B.2. Then, copy from 
Part I the aggravating circumstances on which you 
all agree and the mitigating circumstances that 
one or more of you find are present.\par
}\pard \fi-2340\li2340\sl0\tx2340 
{\plain \tab \tab c.\tab Remember, you can stop deliberating and sentence 
the defendant to life imprisonment only if you all 
agree to do so. If your sentence is life 
imprisonment, you should check the finding, either 
C.1. or C.2., that explains why you are rejecting 
the death penalty and imposing a life sentence. If 
the reason for rejecting the death penalty is that 
one or more of you find no aggravating 
circumstances, check C.1. If the reason for 
rejecting death is that, although all of you agree 
on at least one aggravating circumstance, one or 
more of you find that mitigating are not 
outweighed by aggravating circumstances, then 
check C.2. At that point, copy from Part I the 
mitigating circumstances that one or more of you 
find are present and the aggravating circumstances 
on which you all agree.}}